We implemented an interactive tool to inspect
behavioral data sets
that can be used directly within the
Jupyter Lab coding environment.
Primarily, this tool is composed of a
table that supports operations
like sorting, filtering and editing
in an interactive way.
Here for example, we imported the behavioral
annotations of the social cichlids
data set, the ground truth behavioral intervals
that we used to train
classifiers.
Let's display the table in full screen mode.
As you can see here in the
navigation widget, we are currently viewing
the first 10 out of 1,000
614 observations.
Each of these observations is represented
as a single row in the table,
fully described by the visible columns.
The table can be sorted, also with
multiple columns at once.
Let's sort it by group, actor,
and start to see the actual order
in which each individual performed social behaviors
towards its group members.
Since this is a lot of data,
we can perform filtering to subset
the observations, for example by category.
Active filters are indicated with the blue
tick button and can be removed by
clicking the same button.
Now, let's select all chasing events
and select one group.
Now we are left with only 17
observations, allowing us to review each row
individually.
This can be done by clicking on
the play action button, which will open
a pop-up for video playback.
For demonstration purposes, I have clicked on
this row before, so our application
has already pre-rendered this video.
Normally, you would see a progress bar
here, which indicates the video rendering
progress.
Usually, this should not take longer than
a few seconds, depending on the duration
of the behavioral interval that was selected.
Since the video is played back directly
in the browser that you use for
Jupyter Lab, you have similar options to
what you know from online video
streaming.
The video can be slowed down or
sped up, looped, and additionally played
in full screen mode.
Here you can see the focal individual,
the actor in light red, and the
recipient of this particular social behavior in
blue.
The behavioral event itself, the interval between
the annotated start and stop timestamps, is
highlighted through the label and optionally also
by color changes of the interacting
individuals' trajectory overlay.
Other individuals that do not play a
role in this dyadic interactions are shown
in gray.
The video display can be configured by
accessing the rendering options, clicking this button.
You can set the rendering resolution,
whether to crop the region of interest
with the focal individuals, and how much
temporal padding should be added before and
after the behavioral event.
The next page has all the options
that you need to modify the trajectory
overlay.
You can specify which key points to
show and which key points to connect
as posture segments.
On the last page, we have a
few more options focusing on the category
label.
Additionally, you can choose to highlight specific
categories with custom colors.
Okay, back to Jupiter Lab.
We also used this same tool to
inspect predictions on a second, already
existing behavioral data set of dyadic
interactions in mice.
We used this data set to benchmark
our behavioral classification pipeline and visualize the
results in one of the paper's figures.
The first panel in the figure shows
a behavioral timeline plot of the last
resident intruder sequence of the test data
set.
We see a lot of correct predictions,
the orange bars, when compared to the
ground truth annotations, the blue bars.
However, we can also see wrong predictions,
for example here, just shortly after the
second minute, a quite long mounting event
where the corresponding annotation is much shorter.
We can use our interactive table and
video rendering to check whether the classification
model made a mistake.
Instead of annotations, we now imported the
classifier's predictions on the test data set.
So, let's filter by group, since we
know that we visualized the last test
sequence, by category, mount, the predicted
category, and limit the start and stop
time ranges.
We saw in the visualization that the
interval was between minutes two and three,
so we can select this here in
the filters.
Okay, that now gives us exactly one
prediction, and we can see here in
the True category column that it was
overlapping most of the time with the
behavioral background category.
So, let's have a look at the video.
[VIDEO CONTENT - NO SPEECH]
Indeed, it seems that in this case,
the classifier made a correct prediction, whereas
the annotated interval seems too short.
[VIDEO CONTENT - NO SPEECH]
We can go back to the table
and indicate this row as validated and
include a short comment.
In that way, you can use this
interactive tool to inspect, visualize and validate
behavioral data sets of interacting individuals,
both for your own behavioral scoring, but
also for predictions that result from our
behavioral classification pipeline.